---
layout: post
title: "Introduction to Page Jump Capabilities"
description: "If a page (supports Activity, Fragment) allows being opened through routing, it is necessary to use the @Route annotation to declare routing items. Each page can declare multiple routing items, providing a one-to-many capability, significantly reducing the business impact when unifying routing across multiple platforms."
categories: docs
level: 1
tag: "Basic Capability Introduction"
android: true
---

Routers can be used for page navigation:

* Supports Activity and Fragment
* Supports many-to-one or one-to-one relationships between path and pages
* Page Path supports regular expression declarations
* Supports exporting routing tables in json format
* Supports dynamic distribution of json routing tables
* Supports cross-module transfer of any object (no need for serialization, and ensures object type)
* Supports interception of page navigation
* Supports custom parsing of page parameters (such as parsing json into an object)
* Supports using routers to navigate to Activity(Fragment) in third-party SDKs


## 1.0 Routing Table

### 1.1 Declaring Routing Items

If a page (supports Activity, Fragment) allows being opened by a router, it needs to use the annotation @Route to declare routing items. Each page can declare multiple routing items, i.e., a one-to-many capability, significantly reducing the business impact when unifying routing across multiple platforms.

**Parameter Interpretation**

- **path**: The routing path [mandatory].  
It's recommended to be a URL. The path supports using regular expressions (for matching efficiency, the regex must include backslashes \), and allows multiple paths to correspond to the same Activity(Fragment).
- **action**: Custom event [optional].  
Generally used to perform an action after opening the target page, such as custom page pop-up ads. For more details, please see the `ActionManager` document: [https://therouter.cn/docs/2022/08/25/01](https://therouter.cn/docs/2022/08/25/01)
- **description**: Page description [optional].  
Will be recorded in the routing table, convenient for later troubleshooting to know what each path or Activity is for.
- **params**:  Page parameters [optional].  
Automatically written into the intent, allowing writing in the routing table for dynamic distribution to modify default values, or passed in through code during routing navigation.

```java
@Route(path = "http://therouter.com/home", action = "action://scheme.com",
        description = "Second page", params = {"hello", "world"})
public class HomeActivity extends AppCompatActivity {
}
```

### 1.2 Generating Routing Table  

#### 1.2.1 Routing Table Overwrite Rules

If two routes have the same path and target className, they are considered the same route, **ignoring whether the parameters are the same.**  

#### 1.2.2 RouteMap.json Generation Rules

`RouteMap.json` file is the core of `TheRouter` routing table. It serves two purposes:

* It is a manifest file used to display all routing information in the current project. At the same time, this routing information can be overwritten by remote distribution, supporting dynamic routing capability. See 【1.3 Remote Distribution of Routing Table】  
* Used for adding routing tables to pages in third-party SDKs. Often, because third-party SDKs do not provide routing table declarations, and we cannot modify the SDK code, manual entries for third-party routing pages can be added in the RouteMap.json file. See 【1.4 Adding Routing Table for Third-Party Libraries】  


If you do not need the above two capabilities, you can ignore the existence of this json file. Even if deleted, it's okay because the file will  

be regenerated every time you compile. And if you don't delete it, it's also fine, as the framework will automatically merge similar projects during compilation, following the 【1.2.1 Routing Table Overwrite Rules】  

If you are using the above capabilities, it is recommended that you turn on the compilation period configuration item and set it to the error level, see 【1.5 Compilation Period Configuration】  



#### 1.2.3 Routing Table Generation Rules

The compilation period follows the following order to take the **union**.
Overwrite rule: According to the following order, if the same, the latter can overwrite the former's routing table rules.    


1. Compile period parsing annotations to generate routing table  
2. First, take the routing table in the `business module aar`  
3. Then take the routing table in the `main app module` code  
4. Finally, take the routing table declared in the `assets/RouteMap.json` file.  

	* If there is no file at compile time, a default routing table will be generated in this directory; if there is, the routing tables will be merged  
	* The generation of the routing table can be configured whether to enable checking the legitimacy of the route, judging whether the target page exists, (warning/error) level  

5. Run-time online dynamic distribution of the routing table  

	* The routing table allows online dynamic distribution and will overwrite the local routing table, see 【1.3 Remote Distribution of Routing Table】  

### 1.3 Remote Distribution of Routing Table

Every time TheRouter project is compiled, a routing table is generated in the apk, with the default path as: `/assets/therouter/routeMap.json`

At the same time, this routing table also supports remote dynamic distribution. For example, the remote can distribute different routing tables for different APP versions to achieve configuration purposes. Therefore, there are two recommended methods for users to choose from:  

1. Connect the packaging system with the configuration system, and automatically upload the configuration files in the assets/ directory to the configuration system after each new version of the APP is packaged, and distribute them to the corresponding version of the APP. The advantage is that it is fully automatic and will not make mistakes.  
2.  If the configuration system cannot be connected, manually distribute the routing items that need to be modified online, because TheRouter will automatically cover the routing items in the package with the latest distributed routing items. The advantage is accuracy, and the consumption of traffic resources is small.

**Note: Once you set a custom InitTask, the original framework's routing table initialization task will no longer execute, and you need to handle the fallback logic when the routing table is not found yourself**, one recommended handling method is as follows:  

```java
// This code must be called before Application.super.onCreate()
RouteMapKt.setInitTask(new RouterMapInitTask() {
    /** 
     * This method is executed asynchronously
     */
    @Override
    public void asyncInitRouteMap() {
        // This is purely business logic, each company's remote configuration scheme may be different
        // It is not recommended to always request the network, otherwise, during the network request process, the routing table is empty, which may cause the APP to be unable to jump pages
        // It is best to first load locally, then start an asynchronous thread to load remote configuration
        String json = Connfig.doHttp("routeMap");
        // It is recommended to add a judgment, if the remote configuration pull fails, use the package configuration as a fallback solution, otherwise, it may cause routing table exceptions  
        if (!TextUtils.isEmpty(json)) {
            List<RouteItem> list = new Gson().fromJson(json, new TypeToken<List<RouteItem>>() {
            }.getType());
            // It is recommended to cover the local routing
            RouteMap.addRouteMap(list);
        } else {
            // Asynchronously execute TheRouter's internal fallback routing table
            initRouteMap()
        }
    }
});
```


### 1.4 Adding Routing Table for Third-Party Libraries  

There are two methods:

1. Adding via configuration file: Declare the routing table of the third-party page in the local assets/RouteMap.json file.
2. Adding at runtime in code:


```java
/**
 * @params path Routing Path
 * @params className The complete class name of the third-party page's Activity or Fragment
 * @params action The action to be passed into the page, if none, pass an empty string
 * @params description Description of the third-party page
 */
addRouteItem(RouteItem(path, className, action, description))
```


### 1.5 Compilation Period Configuration

If a routing table declares a non-existent `Activity/Fragment`, it is usually due to old code deletion, or when the package name and class name are changed during restructuring and the routing table is forgotten to be cleared. Here you can choose to report an error or a warning, provided for reference.
Can configure compilation period properties in `local.properties` (log output for warning, error for direct reporting error)  

* Check for non-existent `Activity` declared in the routing table `CHECK_ROUTE_MAP=warning` warning/error optional

#### Improvements in 1.2.0 version  

1. Compilation period parameter configuration now supports writing in `gradle.properties`  
2. Each build deletes the local `assets/therouter/routeMap.json`, need to configure `CHECK_ROUTE_MAP=delete`   


## 2.0 How to Use Page Navigation

### 2.1 Routing Navigation
The parameters passed in can be `String` and the 8 primitive data types, as well as `Bundle`, `Serializable`, `Parcelable` objects, consistent with the rules of passing values in `Intent`.  


It also supports adding special business parameters such as `Flag/Uri/ClipData/identifier` to the Intent for this jump.


```
// The passed-in parameters can be parsed into any type through the annotation @Autowired. If it's an object, it's recommended to pass json
// If the context parameter is not passed or passed as null, it will automatically be replaced with application
TheRouter.build("http://therouter.com/home")
        .withInt("key1", 12345678)
        .withString("key2", "parameter")
        .withBoolean("key3", false)
        .withSerializable("key4", object)
        .withObject("object", any) // Different from the previous method, this method can pass any object, but please ensure the object type is consistent at the receiving end
        .navigation(context);

        // If requestCode is passed in, it will use startActivityForResult to start the Activity by default
        .navigation(context, 123);

        // If the destination is a fragment, you need to use
        .createFragment();
        
        // Open the page with a callback
        .navigation(v.getContext(), new NavigationCallback() {
            @Override
            public void onFound(@NotNull Navigator navigator) {
                super.onFound(navigator);
                Toast.makeText(v.getContext(), "Found the page, about to open" + navigator.getUrl(), Toast.LENGTH_SHORT).show();
            }

            @Override
            public void onLost(@NotNull Navigator navigator) {
                super.onLost(navigator);
                Toast.makeText(v.getContext(), "Lost the page" + navigator.getUrl(), Toast.LENGTH_SHORT).show();
            }
            
            @Override
            public void onArrival(@NotNull Navigator navigator) {
                super.onArrival(navigator);
                Toast.makeText(v.getContext(), "Opened" + navigator.getUrl(), Toast.LENGTH_SHORT).show();
            }
		});
```

### 2.2 Delayed Routing Jump

There are two main application scenarios for delayed jumps:

* **First Scenario**: During initialization, if the routing table is very large. In this case, other routing frameworks might either show a blank screen for a period or discard the jump altogether. In TheRouter, the framework temporarily stores the current jump action and executes the jump immediately after the routing table is initialized.  
* **Second Scenario**: Starting from Android 8.0, Activities cannot start pages in the background, which has a significant impact on business decisions. Since there may be cases of foreground Services, it is not appropriate to judge the foreground and background solely based on the Activity lifecycle. In TheRouter, the framework allows businesses to define their own foreground and background rules. If in the background, the jump action can be temporarily stored and resumed when entering the foreground.

```java
// Multiple stored actions can be executed in order when resumed
TheRouter.build("http://therouter.com/home")
        .withInt("key1", 12345678)
        .pending() // Temporarily store the current jump action
        .navigation(context);

// To resume
sendPendingNavigator(); // Toplevel method, no class name needed, Java should use NavigatorKt class name
```


### 2.3 Receiving Routing Parameters

When receiving objects with annotations, you must call `TheRouter.inject(this);` it's recommended to call it directly in Base.
There are two forms of reception:

* Automatic reception through annotations, by default supports String and 8 basic data types, as well as custom object parsing  
* Receiving from intent through code  


```java
@Route(path = "http://therouter.com/home")
public class HomeActivity extends BaseActivity {
    // Can be parsed into 8 basic data types or their wrapper classes
    @Autowired
    int key1;

    // String type can be automatically parsed, besides String and 8 basic wrapper classes,
    // other Objects require custom parsing rules, see section 2.4 for custom methods
    @Autowired
    String key2;

    // If the name is not declared, the variable name is used as the key for Intent parsing
    @Autowired(name = "key3")
    String user;

    @Override
    protected void onCreate(Bundle savedInstanceState) {
        super.onCreate(savedInstanceState);
        // When receiving objects with annotations, this line must be called, recommended to be called directly in Base.
        TheRouter.inject(this);
        // Of course, if you don't mind the hassle, you can also parse manually, but it can only be parsed as String because that's how it's passed
        String key1 = activity.getIntent().getStringExtra("key1");
    }
}

```

### 2.4 Object Parameter Reception

If objects are needed between page jumps, there are three ways:

* First: Serialize the object into json, pass the json, and then deserialize it into an object using a custom parser, refer to `custom @Autowired parsing`  
* Second: Direct transmission, being careful with object types at the receiving end to avoid casting errors. Object parameters can only be received using annotations. When receiving objects with annotations, you must call `TheRouter.inject(this);` recommended to be called directly in `Base`.  
* Third: Directly pass `Parcelable` or `Serializable` objects. (In previous versions, injection of inner class type objects was not supported, fixed in `1.1.3-rc5`)


```java
TheRouter.build("http://therouter.com/home")
        .withString("user_info_object", json) // Passing a json object
        .withObject("user_object", any) // This method can pass any object, but ensure object type consistency at the receiving end
        .navigation(context);

@Route(path = "http://therouter.com/home")
public class HomeActivity extends BaseActivity {  
	
	@Autowired
    User user_info_object;
    
    @Autowired
    User user_object;

    @Override
    protected void onCreate(Bundle savedInstanceState) {
        super.onCreate(savedInstanceState);
        // When receiving objects with annotations, this line must be called, recommended to be called directly in Base.
        TheRouter.inject(this);
    }
}
```



### 2.5 Custom @Autowired Parsing

If objects are needed between page jumps, they first need to be serialized into json, passed, and then deserialized back into objects. 
With the `@Autowired` annotation, you can custom parse json into an object.

```java
TheRouter.addAutowiredParser(new MyAutowiredParser());
```

For the specific definition of the `Parser class`, refer to the `DefaultUrlParser` class.  


## 3.0 Custom Processors for Routing Jumps

The framework has four built-in custom processors for business scenarios, used to uniformly modify routing landing page parameters in an aspect-oriented way during the routing jump process.

### 3.1 Path Modifier

**Application Scenario**: Used to fix routing path errors on the client side.

For example: Converting relative paths to absolute paths, or when the server-issued link cannot fix https or http, but the client code has hardcoded the https path, this method can be used to unify them.  

**Note**: *The processor must be added before calling TheRouter.build() method, otherwise all paths before the processor will not be modified*.  


```java
NavigatorKt.addNavigatorPathFixHandle(new NavigatorPathFixHandle() {
    @Override
    public String fix(String path) {
        path = path.replace("http://", "https://");
        if (!path.contains("www.kymjs.com") && path.startsWith("/")) {
            path = "https://www.kymjs.com" + path;
        }
        return path;
    }
    /**
     * The larger the number, the higher the priority.
     * Generally, the priority method does not need to be overridden, unless you really have a special scenario to use it.
     */
    @Override
    public int getPriority() {
        return 5;
    }
});

```

### 3.2 Page Replacer

**Application Scenario**: Used when needing to specify certain `paths` as new links. It can also be used in fixing link scenarios, but unlike the `path modifier`, the modifier is usually for solving generic issues, whereas the replacer only takes effect during page jumps, more for solving specific issues.

For example, in modularization, if a `SplashActivity` advertising component developed in the homepage shell template component serves as the application's `MainActivity`, automatically jumping to the business homepage when the splash advertisement ends.  
But as each business is different, and the `Path` of the homepage also differs, it's not desirable for each business line to change this homepage shell template component. In this case, you can first write a placeholder `https://kymjs.com/splash/to/home` in the component, and let the integrators solve it through the `Path` replacer.  

**Note**: *The processor must be added before calling TheRouter.build().navigation() method, otherwise all jumps before the processor will not be replaced*.

```java
NavigatorKt.addPathReplaceInterceptor(new PathReplaceInterceptor() {
    @Override
    public String replace(String path) {
        if ("https://kymjs.com/splash/to/home".equals(path)) {
            return "https://kymjs.com/business/home";
        }
        return path;
    }
});

```

### 3.3 Router Replacer

**Application Scenario**: Commonly used on pages that cannot be used without logging in. For example, when accessing a user's wallet page, the page can declare in the routing table that it requires login. During the routing jump process, if the destination page requires login, the route will first be replaced to the login page, while passing the original destination page information as a parameter to the login page. After the login process is completed, the previous routing operation can continue.

The router replacer's interception point is further back, mainly used after the framework has found a route from the routing table based on the path and then performs operations on the found route.

This logic is not quite suitable to be written before all page jumps. The usual approach was to judge in the landing page whether the user has the required permissions, but it's actually more appropriate to complete this at the routing layer.  

**Note**: *The processor must be added before calling TheRouter.build().navigation() method, otherwise all jumps before the processor will not be replaced*.


```java
// On how to determine whether the current page requires login, we recommend configuring it in the assets/RouteMap.json routing table or annotations (which will be automatically added to the routing table), for example:

// Define needLogin with annotation
@Route(path = "http://kymjs.com/home", params = {"needLogin","true"})
public class TestActivity extends AppCompatActivity {}

// The way to define it in the assets/RouteMap.json routing table is as follows
  {
    "path": "http://kymjs.com/home",
    "className": "com.therouter.demo.shell.TestActivity",
    "action": "",
    "description": "",
    "params": {
        "needLogin":true
    }
  }

// Handle the jump logic in the interceptor
NavigatorKt.addRouterReplaceInterceptor(new RouterReplaceInterceptor() {
    @Override
    public RouteItem replace(RouteItem routeItem) {
        if (Boolean.parseBoolean(routeItem.getExtras().get("needLogin").toString())) {
            RouteItem target = matchRouteMap("URL of the login page");
            target.setDescription("Here you can modify the routing parameters, it's recommended to pass the routeItem as a parameter to the login page");
            return target;
        }
        return routeItem;
    }
});

```

### 3.4 Routing AOP Interceptor

Unlike the previous three processors, there can only be one global AOP interceptor for routing. It is used to implement AOP capabilities, and custom logic processing can be done before the entire TheRouter jump process, when the destination page is found, during the jump, and after the jump.

**Usage Scenarios**: There are many scenarios, the most common of which is to intercept some jumps, such as not opening debug pages in a production environment, or customizing the `startActivity` jump method.  

```java
NavigatorKt.setRouterInterceptor(new RouterInterceptor() {
    @Override
    public void process(RouteItem routeItem, InterceptorCallback callback) {
        if (!TheRouter.isDebug() && routeItem.getClassName().equals("com.kymjs.DebugActivity")) {
            return;
        } else {
            // The callback object can also be customized, it depends on how you use it
            callback.onContinue(routeItem);
        }
    }
});

```


## 3.5 Transition Result Callback

If `TheRouter` is used for transitioning and an unrecognized `path` is entered, there will be no action taken. You can also define a default global callback to handle transition situations, which won't be called if the landing page is a `Fragment`.  

Of course, the transition result callback is not limited to this purpose; it can be adapted based on specific business needs.  

The callback can also be set individually for a specific transition, with an overloaded `navigation()` method available for setting.

```java
NavigatorKt.defaultNavigationCallback(new NavigationCallback() {
    // After the landing page Activity opens and reaches onCreate, it will callback.
    @Override
    public void onActivityCreated(@NonNull Navigator navigator, @NonNull Activity activity) {
        super.onActivityCreated(navigator, activity);
    }

    // Immediately callback after startActivity is executed.
    @Override
    public void onArrival(@NonNull Navigator navigator) {
        super.onArrival(navigator);
    }
    
    // Callback when the targeted landing page is found (before startActivity).
    @Override
    public void onFound(@NonNull Navigator navigator) {
        super.onFound(navigator);
    }

    // Callback when the landing page cannot be found.
    @Override
    public void onLost(@NonNull Navigator navigator) {
        super.onLost(navigator);
    }
});

```


## 4.0 Other APIs

### 4.1 Determining if a URL is a Routing Path

If the return is null, it indicates that the current URL is not within the routing table.

```java
// Kotlin toplevel method, for Java use RouteMapKt class
matchRouteMap("fill in the URL here") == null 

```
