---
layout: post  
title: "Using KSP for Annotation Processing in TheRouter"  
description: "Starting from TheRouter version 1.1.4-rc2, KSP capabilities have been merged into the main branch and are no longer in a separate feature branch. Below, we'll introduce how to use KSP."  
categories: docs  
level: 2  
tag: "Introduction to Basic Capabilities"  
android: true  
---

Starting from TheRouter version `1.1.4-rc2`, the `KSP` capabilities have been merged into the main branch and are no longer in a separate feature branch. Below, we'll introduce how to use `KSP`.  

### What is KSP  

KSP stands for Kotlin Symbol Processing. According to the official description, KSP provides a lightweight compile-time plugin API based on Kotlin, and its compilation speed can be up to twice as fast as KAPT.  

From a technical perspective, during the build process of an Android project, there are three main types of annotation processors available: APT, KAPT, and KSP.  

- APT (Annotation Processing Tool) is the annotation processor provided by JDK. It typically doesn't require any additional plugins in Gradle projects. You can use it with `annotationProcessor "cn.therouter:apt:x.x.x"`, but it doesn't support parsing Kotlin annotations.  

- KAPT (Kotlin Annotation Processing Tool) was initially introduced by Kotlin to handle annotations in Kotlin code. However, its implementation is relatively straightforward. It essentially wraps APT and first attempts to process Kotlin annotations. If it fails to do so, it falls back to using APT. This means that in a module with mixed Java and Kotlin code, KAPT may perform annotation processing twice.  

- KSP (Kotlin Symbol Processing) is based on syntax analysis for annotation processing. Strictly speaking, it can be used for more than just annotation processing; it can perform various tasks based on syntax analysis, such as custom code syntax checks. It can be thought of as replacing some of the things that lint can do. Because it relies on syntax analysis, its performance is expected to be better than KAPT since syntax analysis is always performed during compilation.  

### Using KSP with TheRouter  

#### Step One  

In all modules of the project where annotations are used, the corresponding `build.gradle` files should include the following dependencies. **All modules must be added, not just sub-modules**:  

**Note:** After using `KSP`, if you were previously using `kapt`, you should remove the original `kapt` dependencies.  

```java
// For Gradle versions below 7.x, add the KSP plugin like this
apply plugin: 'com.google.devtools.ksp'
// Remove the previous kapt dependency (if any)
// apply plugin: 'kotlin-kapt'

// For Gradle 7.x and above, there's a new way to add the KSP plugin like this
// Of course, you can still use the previous method mentioned above
plugins {
    id "com.google.devtools.ksp"
    // Remove the previous kapt dependency (if any)
    // id 'org.jetbrains.kotlin.kapt'
}

dependencies {
    // Starting from 1.1.4-rc2, KSP is supported in the official version, previously you needed to use beta versions, but the usage remains the same
    ksp "cn.therouter:apt:1.1.4-rc4"
    // Remove the previous kapt dependency (if any)
    // kapt "cn.therouter:apt:1.1.4-rc4"
}
```


#### Step Two

In the project's root `build.gradle`, include the classpath for the kapt plugin:  

**Note**: The version number should match your Kotlin version. You can find the appropriate `KSP` plugin version on the KSP official website [https://github.com/google/ksp/releases](https://github.com/google/ksp/releases). For example, if your Kotlin version is `1.5.31`, then you should use the corresponding `KSP` plugin version like `1.5.31-1.0.0`.   

```java
// For Gradle versions below 7.x, add it like this
buildscript {
	dependencies {
		classpath "com.google.devtools.ksp:symbol-processing-gradle-plugin:xxx-xxx"
	}
}

// For Gradle 7.x and above, there's a new way to add it like this
// Of course, you can still use the previous method mentioned above
plugins {
    id "com.google.devtools.ksp" version 'xxx-xxx' apply false
}
``` 
